CS 313 | Web Engineering II
03 Teach : Team Activity
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR ONLINE STUDENTS
You need to coordinate a one hour synchronous meeting with your group for this activity.

Overview
This assignment will help you practice basic form handling in PHP.

Before this activity, each student should read the weekly preparation material to ensure that the team meeting is as efficient and effective as possible.

Instructions
Complete the following assignment as a team. Designate one team member as the "main driver" and collaborate on their copy of the code. Everyone on the team should be actively engaged in writing the code and contributing to the solution. Once the solution is working, make sure that everyone on the team gets a copy of the code and everyone successfully deploys the code to their individual Heroku accounts. Each week let someone else be the "main driver" of the coding.

Create an HTML form that posts data to a PHP form which handles the submission, processes the data and reports the results.

CORE REQUIREMENTS
Create an HTML form that contains the following components:

Name (text)

Email (text)

Major (radio button) with the following options:

Computer Science

Web Design and Development

Computer information Technology

Computer Engineering

Comments (text area)

You do not need to style this HTML form per se, but each input should be labeled and separated from each other.

Create a PHP script to handle this form, so that when the form is submitted, it captures the form data and produces a web page that displays:

The user's name

Their email address, with a "mailto:" link for the email address

Their major

Their comments

Again, this data need not be styled, but it should be labeled and separated from each other.

Use the POST method for your form submission.

Add to your form a checkbox list for the continents the user has visited with the following options:

North America

South America

Europe

Asia

Australia

Africa

Antarctica

Then, modify your PHP page to read and display this list.

STRETCH CHALLENGES
After finishing the core requirements, ensure that everyone is at that point and understands the material. When everyone has completed the core requirements, you can move on to these stretch challenges.

Change your HTML form to also be PHP script. For the majors, instead of hardcoding each of the options, instead, create a PHP array (or something similar...) that contains each of the desired majors and its abbreviation. Then, loop over this array to generate radio buttons for the different majors.

For the places you have been, set the value to be some kind of id or code (e.g., "na" instead of "North America"). Then, in your PHP form handler (i.e., the results page), create a map/dictionary that you can use to convert from the id to the text you want to display. When looping through the values to display them, look them up in your map to get the display text.

Deploy your pages to one of your servers and ensure that it works correctly there.

Instructor's Solution
As a part of this team activity, you are expected to look over a solution from the instructor, to compare your approach to that one. One of the questions on the I-Learn submission will ask you to provide insights from this comparison.

Please DO NOT open the solution until you have worked through this activity as a team for the one hour period. At the end of the hour, if you are still struggling with some of the core requirements, you are welcome to view the instructor's solution and use it to help you complete your own code. Even if you use the instructor's code to help you, you are welcome to report that you finished the core requirements, if you code them up yourself.

After working with your team for the one hour activity, click here for the instructor's solution.

Submission
When you have finished this activity, please fill out the assessment in I-Learn. You are welcome to complete any additional parts of this activity by yourself or with others after your meeting before submitting the assessment.